Frequently asked questions  |  Vertex AI Search for commerce  |  Google Cloud
Skip to main content
Technology areas
close
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Generative AI
Industry solutions
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Cross-product tools
close
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
Migration
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Related sites
close
Google Cloud Home
Free Trial and Free Tier
Architecture Center
Blog
Contact Sales
Google Cloud Developer Center
Google Developer Center
Google Cloud Marketplace
Google Cloud Marketplace Documentation
Google Cloud Skills Boost
Google Cloud Solution Center
Google Cloud Support
Google Cloud Tech Youtube Channel
/
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Console
Sign in
Vertex AI Search for commerce
Guides
Reference
Support
Resources
Contact Us
Start free
Technology areas
More
Guides
Reference
Support
Resources
Cross-product tools
More
Related sites
More
Console
Contact Us
Start free
Vertex AI search for commerce
All resources
Pricing
Quotas and limits
FAQ
Overview
Conversational features
Search for commerce console
Release notes
Data use terms & conditions
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Generative AI
Industry solutions
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Infrastructure as code
Migration
SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Google Cloud Home
Free Trial and Free Tier
Architecture Center
Blog
Contact Sales
Google Cloud Developer Center
Google Developer Center
Google Cloud Marketplace
Google Cloud Marketplace Documentation
Google Cloud Skills Boost
Google Cloud Solution Center
Google Cloud Support
Google Cloud Tech Youtube Channel
Home
Documentation
Industry solutions
Vertex AI Search for commerce
Resources
Send feedback
Frequently asked questions
Have other challenges or don't see your issue outlined here?
Report a bug or request a feature
and join the
cloud-recommendations-users
Google group or
Stack Overflow
discussions.
General
These are general frequently asked questions.
1. Do you have client libraries for Vertex AI Search for commerce or more sample code?
Yes. You can see the
client libraries guide
for setup and reference information for each library.
The
Google API Discovery Service
can also be used instead of raw REST calls.
2. Are all the recommendation models personalized?
The Recommended for You, Others You May Like, and Buy it Again models make personalized recommendations when
provided with user history. The Frequently Bought Together and Similar Items models are not
personalized.
See
About recommendation models
.
3. Will I receive personalized recommendations immediately, or will I need to wait for these to improve over time?
Recommendations improve as you collect more user history. The Recommended for You model
shows popular products and the Others You May Like model shows similar products based
mostly on other's views. Both of these models start taking user behavior into
account immediately, so it's important to send real-time events. See
About recommendation models
.
User events need to be sent in real-time, or very close to real-time, for
personalization to be effective. If user events are only submitted daily, or in
batches throughout the day, the personalized models may not perform as well as
they could if real-time events were sent.
4. Are you using Google user demographic data in your models?
The models only use the catalog and user event data that you provide. If you
want to include demographic data, you can include other textual or numerical
information that might be useful as
custom attributes
. This
data will begin to be used by the model after it has been retuned.
Don't include personally identifiable information (PII) such as email addresses
or usernames. We suggest you anonymize demographic data, such as by hashing the
values or using group IDs.
5. Can I make recommendations based on the event history of a group of users rather than a single user's history?
Recommendations are based on a single visitor ID or user ID. You
would need to make individual requests and then combine the results to base
recommendations on a group's history. If the users have common metadata
attributes, you could use group IDs as user IDs to provide group-level
recommendations.
6. I noticed that you can submit image URLs for products. Do the models take into consideration the product images?
Yes, product images can be submitted as part of your product catalog data. Vertex AI Search for commerce uses product URLs and the identifiers behind them (URIs) to
enrich product descriptions
.
The
Product
object contains an images field, which is a list of image objects. Each image object can include a URI, height, and width. Up to 300 images are allowed per product.
While optional, providing product images is highly recommended. (
Prediction preview
) also uses image
URLs to display the images when you preview a model's prediction results in the
Search for commerce console.
7. My company isn't a retail ecommerce website. Can I still use recommendations for predicting x,y,z?
We've had customers use recommendations for content
recommendations, video streaming and gaming, and other use cases. However, our
content and experience is designed with the retail ecommerce use case
in mind and may not be suited for other use cases yet.
8. Can I place recommendations on any page of my site?
Yes, but the models are each designed for specific use cases and may work best
on certain pages. See
About recommendation models
.
Frequently Bought Together and Others You May Like require item IDs, so they should be used for
recommendations using, for example, a product ID or items in a cart. Frequently Bought Together
typically works best on add-to-cart or checkout pages, while Others You May Like and
Similar Items work best on product detail pages. Recommended for You could be placed on any
page, since it only requires a visitor ID as input, but it is designed as a home
page serving config. Buy it Again is designed to be placed on any page.
9. Can I use recommendations for recommendations in email newsletters?
Yes. This can be done by making a call to the API with a visitor ID or user ID,
then incorporating the results into an email template. If you want the items to
be loaded dynamically at email-read time, you would need to use an intermediary
endpoint, such as a
Google Cloud Function
, to send the predict
request. The API only provides a list of ordered product IDs and metadata, so
you will also need to write your own code to render the image results.
10. Can I use Vertex AI Search for commerce for other non-web use cases (mobile apps, kiosks)?
Yes. You can set up an endpoint (for example,
Google Cloud Function
) to get results for the app. You also
need a similar mechanism to send real-time events.
11. I don't have 3+ months of event data. Can I still use Vertex AI Search for commerce? Can I add more data at a later point?
The Similar Items model does not use user event data or model tuning. If you don't
have any event data, you can still create and train a Similar Items model as long as
you have catalog data.
If you can record sufficient traffic for real-time events, recent data can be
used for training other models. If you have additional data available at a later
date, you can upload it after the initial model training. The newly backfilled
data gets incorporated into the models during daily retraining. However, if the
data is significantly different than the events that were used for the initial
training, the models may need to be
retuned
.
Most models work best with at least three months of product page views, home
page views, and add-to-cart events for all models, and ideally one to two years
of purchase history for the Frequently Bought Together model.
One to two weeks of detail page views can be enough to start training Others You May Like
and Recommended for You models, while Frequently Bought Together and Buy it Again usually require more because there
are typically fewer purchases per day than there are page views. Model quality
can be significantly improved with more data; the minimum amount might not produce
optimal results. A year's worth of purchases, for example, allows the models to
better take advantage of seasonality and trends.
12. Can I recommend categories along with products?
Recommendations returns product recommendations only,
but you can get the categories for each product returned as part of the results.
13. Do you have integrations for uploading data from SQL databases or other systems, such as BigQuery?
Yes. For events, there is
sample code
that reads from
BigQuery. See a
Google Analytics sample dataset for BigQuery
.
14. Does Vertex AI Search for commerce use cookies?
No, it doesn't use cookies. However, all events sent to
the Vertex AI Search for commerce must have a visitor ID specified, which is often a
session identifier from a cookie.
15. Do I need a dedicated Google Cloud project?
You can create a new, dedicated project, or
enable Vertex AI Search for commerce in an existing project.
16. Why aren't my credentials working when using Cloud Shell?
Check that you've completed the
authentication setup steps
for
Vertex AI Search for commerce. You should be using a service account that you've made
available in your environment. Otherwise, you might get an error like this:
Your application has authenticated using end user credentials from the Google Cloud SDK or Google Cloud Shell which are not supported.
For more about service accounts, see the
Authentication section
of the Google Cloud
documentation.
17. How can I compare Vertex AI Search for commerce to similar solutions?
You can conduct
A/B tests
to compare results from
Vertex AI Search for commerce to those of other products.
18. I think feature x,y,z would be great. Can you add this?
We'd love to hear from you. Feature requests can be submitted through your
account team, Google Support, or the
issue-tracker
.
19. Can I still use the old API for recommendations?
Recommendations has migrated from the Recommendations Engine API
to Vertex AI Search for commerce. If you were using the Recommendations Engine API while
it was in beta, we recommend migrating your recommendations to
Vertex AI Search for commerce (service endpoint
https://retail.googleapis.com
),
which is GA.
The previous API (service endpoint
https://recommendationengine.googleapis.com
) and its
documentation
remain available, but they are no longer updated.
Catalogs and products
These are frequently asked questions about catalogs and products.
1. How does recommendations handle cold starts for new products?
For products that don't have any purchase history, we make recommendations
based on similar products. In these cases, it is especially important to have
good product titles, categories, and descriptions defined in the catalog.
For cold-start users (visitors with no history) the models start with the most
popular general products, and become more personalized in real time as more user
events are received.
See
About catalogs and products
and the
product reference page
.
2. Can I use my Merchant Center catalog for recommendations?
Yes, you can export a Merchant Center catalog to
BigQuery using the Merchant Center Data Transfer
Service. Then we can read the catalog directly from BigQuery. See
Import catalog data from Merchant Center
.
3. How else can I import my catalog?
Merchant Center
: Import with
Merchant Center. If you use search, you can
use the console to link Merchant Center so that its catalog
syncs automatically.
BigQuery
: Import directly from a table or view.
Cloud Storage
: Import using text files with one JSON catalog
item per line.
Inline import
: Import with an API call, using text files with
one JSON catalog item per line.
Create product items
: Use the
Products
create method.
4. How can I keep my catalog updated? How often does the catalog need to be updated?
See
Keep your catalog up to date
.
We recommend updating your catalog daily. You can do a full update from
Cloud Storage or BigQuery, or an incremental update
(i.e., new and changed items only).
If possible, update price and availability in real time. This affects how
quickly new items can be made searchable with search.
If you have a way to be notified of catalog changes (such as using
Pub/Sub, message queue, events, etc.) then you can update the
catalog in real-time using the
import
or
create
API
methods.
For example,
Cloud Scheduler
can be used to make a daily
BigQuery import call.
5. Are there minimum and maximum catalog sizes?
There is no minimum, but very small catalog sizes (< 100 items) may not see much
benefit from recommendations due to there being very few different products to
recommend.
The catalog maximum is 40 million items.
See the documentation for default
quotas and limits
and for how to
request a change to your quota.
6. My company operates websites in multiple countries. Should I use one catalog for all of my data?
It is usually best to have just one catalog with all items. Events must be
submitted all using a single currency. There is no way to have
multiple catalogs within the same project, but, if you use
entities
,
you can specify search, recommendations, and autocomplete behavior for a
particular country.
If the catalogs are considerably different between websites, we recommend having
a separate project for each website. Also, if the countries have different
languages, we recommend having separate projects, one for each language.
If there are similar websites with low traffic compared to the main website, it
may be best to use a single catalog if there are not enough events to produce
high quality models for all individual websites.
To use a single catalog, the catalog item IDs should be consistent, i.e., the
same product should have a single item ID on all websites so that there is no
duplication of products within the catalog.
For recommendations only, an alternative to using entities is to filter to a
specific website using
filters
. However, filters may take up
to 8 hours to update, so if there are country-specific availability (out of
stock) requirements, they normally need to be handled by a business rule that
filters out the results after the predict response. This applies to v1
filter_tag
filtering and v2 attribute-based filtering.
7. Does Vertex AI Search for commerce support multiple currencies per catalog?
No, only one one currency type per catalog is supported. Events
must be uploaded using a single currency.
If you plan to use the
Search for commerce
console to get your revenue
metrics, make sure your events all use a single currency or convert them all to
the same currency before uploading them.
8. I have multiple websites with a shared catalog or similar items. Can recommendations provide cross-site recommendations?
We typically recommend using a single catalog like this only if there is
significant overlap between the sites; they should share many or all of the same
products. Then, as with multi-region sites, you can use
entities
or
filter tags
to return only site-specific items for a particular
predict call.
If the sites don't share many, or any, catalog items,
then multiple catalogs should be used. Using multiple catalogs
requires a separate Google Cloud project for each catalog.
9. Does including more metadata improve the model? Does the model consider fields x,y,z?
See
Required catalog item information
for required fields.
Other metadata fields are optional (for example, images and itemAttributes). They may be
used for prediction preview, results analysis, training, and tuning. We
recommend including useful attributes such as color, size, material, etc. These
fields can be returned as part of
predict
results by specifying
returnProduct:true
, so they can be useful for rendering
results. Images and item attributes are used for
prediction preview
in the Search for commerce console.
10. Which attributes of a catalog item are used as inputs of model training?
A combination of both user behavior and product attributes is used. The primary
fields used are ID, title, category hierarchy, price, and URL. You can include
other custom key-value attributes that might be useful in
Product.attributes[]
.
Image URLs are more of a convenience feature; you can return this metadata as
part of the
prediction
results by specifying
returnProduct:true
, which can save an extra call to retrieve
this information. Having image URLs also allows
prediction preview
to display the images when you preview a model's prediction results in the
Search for commerce console.
11. What languages are supported for my products?
The
recommendations feature
: Supports most languages. The model
automatically detects the text language. For a list of all languages that can
be automatically detected, see the Compact Language Detector
GitHub
README
.
The
search feature
: Supports
these world languages
.
You set the language when you upload the catalog. The
catalog should be in one language only and the queries should be sent in the
same language. Having multiple languages in the catalog degrades model
performance. For example, if the catalog is in Spanish but the search query is
in English, the query is not translated the query to Spanish.
Note:
If you already have a mixed language catalog for
search, you can improve results by adding synonyms for
search query terms. For example, add both Spanish and English synonyms. For
information about synonyms, see
OnewaySynonymsAction
and
TwowaySynonymsAction
.
12. My catalog has primary/variant or parent/child SKUs. Are these supported?
Yes. This would be similar to the
item_group_id
in
Merchant Center. You need to determine how you want to get
recommendations back (at the parent or child level) and if the events are at the
parent or child level.
See
Product levels
for more about product levels.
Determine and set your correct product level before sending any items or events.
The product level
can be changed
, but requires rejoining the
items and retuning the models.
13. Can I delete products from the catalog when they are no longer available?
If an item is no longer current, we recommend that you set its status to
OUT_OF_STOCK
rather than deleting it, so that previous user events that
reference it are not invalidated.
User events
These are frequently asked questions about user events.
1. What user events do I need to collect?
See
About user events
for a list of user event types
as well as user event requirements and best practices.
2. How do I troubleshoot data quality issues in model creation?
In the Search for commerce console, go to the
Data Quality
page for data
quality metrics about your ingested catalog and user events.
3. Can I integrate with Google Analytics 360?
You can use historical data from Google Analytics 360 (GA360). Similar to
Merchant Center data, GA360 data can be exported to
BigQuery, and then Vertex AI Search for commerce can read the events
directly from BigQuery.
For real-time events, we recommend integrating tracking pixels with
Google Tag Manager, because events are delayed from GA360.
4. I want to import user events from Google Analytics 360. Does it provide all the user events needed?
Google Analytics 360 natively supports all user events used by
Vertex AI Search for commerce except for search events. You can still import search
user events from Analytics 360, but note that
Vertex AI Search for commerce constructs the search user event from search queries and,
if present, product impressions.
5. How do I feed events into Recommendations AI?
Cloud Storage
API inline import
JavaScript Pixel
Google Tag Manager
API write method
Users typically import historical events using Cloud Storage or API import,
then stream real-time events using the JavaScript Pixel or Tag Manager
tag on the live site, or using the write method on the backend.
6. What if I can't send all of the user event types listed as required for a model? What are the minimum event types needed for each model?
Each model and optimization objective has slightly different requirements. See
the
User event data requirements
.
Model performance is typically better when there are more events per catalog
item. For sites with large amounts of traffic and smaller catalogs, you may be
able to start with a smaller volume of historical events, but still typically
need at least a few weeks of historical data as well as real-time events going
forward.
7. I have add-to-cart and purchase-complete events that don't have a value for revenue or quantity. What should I submit?
If you don't have a value for quantity, you can pass a default value of 1
without affecting model results. Items should always have displayPrice set (this
can be whatever is shown to the user, such as a discount price). The
originalPrice and cost are optional.
8. My data only covered limited types of events. Can I still use Vertex AI Search for commerce?
See
User event data requirements
for the minimum data requirements
of each model type.
Search results
These are frequently asked questions about search results.
1. Are search results personalized?
Yes. Search can provide personalized results.
Search results are personalized based on visitor IDs.
For more information, see
Personalization
.
2. How do I include context, like the store a user is shopping from, as part of the search request?
Store ID-based availability and fulfilment options are attributes of the product
catalog. Fulfilment options are attributes such as "delivered online", "buy
online", and "pick up in store".
Attributes can be sent as a parameter in the search request. So, for this
example, the search request can specify the user's store ID. The results can be
filtered or ranked higher based on the store ID in the request.
3. Can I hide products from search results?
Yes. The
filter
parameter can filter results out based on
their tags.
4. Is it possible to rank on multiple criteria, such as both availability and price?
Yes, the
boostSpec
allows complex ranking rules.
5. Is it possible to group some attributes in order to deliver results with multiple facets? For example, grouping cities in the same country for origin of production.
Product attributes are not hierarchical. However, you could use multiple custom
attributes to accomplish this. In this example, you could use custom attributes
for both country of production and city of production.
6. How do suggestions work?
Suggestions are a combination of user queries, rewritten queries, product names
etc. To generate high quality autocomplete suggestions, a sufficient
number of search events should be ingested along with the catalog.
Prediction results
These are frequently asked questions about prediction results.
1. Is there a limit to the number of predictions I can return?
By default, a prediction request returns 20 items in the response. This can be
increased or decreased by submitting a value for
pageSize
.
If you need to return more than 100 items, contact Google Support to increase
the limit. Note, however, that returning more than 100 items can increase
response latency.
2. Am I able to view the reasons why a model made a specific product recommendation?
No.
3. Can I download and cache prediction results?
Since prediction results improve in real-time in response to user activity on
your site, we don't recommend using cached predictions. The models retrain
daily to incorporate changes to your catalog and react to new trends in user
events, which also changes results.
4. I need to re-rank the returned recommendations based on a business rule. Is this supported?
Yes. But while you can re-rank the returned recommendations based on your
business rules, be aware that re-ordering or filtering recommended results can
reduce the overall effectiveness of the model at achieving the optimization goal
that you chose.
Price reranking orders relevant high-priced items first in the set of
recommendations returned and is available as a built-in customization for the
Others You May Like and Recommended for You models.
See
Price reranking
.
5. Are there restrictions on the number of filter tags that I can create and use?
There are no hard limits on the number of unique tags that you can create or
use. However, the system is not designed to handle many filter tags per item. We
recommend keeping filter tags limited to a maximum of 10 per catalog item if
possible. More than 10 values can be used across the entire catalog; this is a
per-item limit. The limit for total tags (the total sum of all per-item tag
counts) is 100,000,000.
See the documentation for Vertex AI Search for commerce
quotas and limits
.
6. Can I diversify recommendations?
Yes.
Recommendation diversification
can be specified as part of the serving
configuration or in the predict request
parameters
.With low
diversification, predictions may contain similar items in the same category.
With higher diversification, the results will contain items from other
categories.
7. Can I prioritize recommendations by price?
Yes.
Price reranking
causes recommended products with a similar
recommendation probability to be ordered by price, with the highest-priced items
first. Relevance is still also used to order items, so enabling price reranking
is not the same as sorting by price. Price reranking can be specified as part of
the serving config or in the predict request parameters.
Conversational features
These are frequently asked questions about Vertex AI Search for commerce's conversational features, product filtering, and commerce.
1. How is a conversational session maintained, and how do I refresh the context?
A conversational session is maintained using the conversation ID returned in the Conversational Commerce agent response. You must pass this conversation ID in all subsequent requests within the same conversation. The system retains all context associated with this ID. To refresh or start a new conversation with a clean slate, initiate a new API request
without
a conversation ID, and a new conversation ID is issued in the response.
2. How does the streaming API affect my implementation and user experience?
The streaming nature means that you can immediately receive query types. This lets you differentiate between queries that have a conversational text response, which may have higher latency, and those that won't like
SIMPLE_PRODUCT_SEARCH
. For
SIMPLE_PRODUCT_SEARCH
, you can immediately trigger a call to the core Search API for quick product display. For LLM-driven responses, you can show loading indicators or fetch search results in parallel while the conversational text streams in, optimizing the perceived responsiveness for the user.
3. Why is it important for
searchParams
in the
ConversationalSearchRequest
to mirror my core Search API calls?
You want to maintain consistency in your
searchParams
, such as filters, sort order, boost rules between your
ConversationalSearchRequest
and your
SearchService.Search
calls. Maintaining consistency helps to ensure that any conversational answers or refined queries provided by the API are aligned with the actual product results being displayed to the user. This prevents discrepancies and provides a coherent shopping experience.
4. If a basic product search is detected, does the conversation end? Can the user go back to other conversational modes?
The conversation
doesn't end
. The conversation ID remains valid. However, from a UX perspective, retailers often transition the user to a standard search results page. If the user then submits a new query
without
the original conversation ID, such as typing directly into the standard search bar, a new conversation session starts. Retailers can, however, design their UX to keep the chat window persistent and allow users to continue the conversation (especially if
conversationalFilteringSpec.mode
is
ENABLED
to enable follow-up questions). The ability to "revert back" to a rich conversational mode depends on this specific UX implementation choice.
5. What data does the Conversational API store for conversation context, and for how long?
To maintain the flow of a conversation, the Conversational API stores the user query, the conversational text response, and the follow-up question that are linked to the conversation ID. This contextual information is retained for
seven days
to ensure that when you pass the conversation ID in subsequent requests, the system can retrieve and utilize this history.
6. Why doesn't the Conversational API provide suggested answers for follow up questions, similarly to how conversational product filtering does?
While providing suggested answers to follow up questions isn't supported, it is on our roadmap to provide this capability. Stay tuned!
7. How does the Conversational API use caching for performance and context?
The Conversational API caches the query types and refined search queries for a given customer and project for up to
10 days
. This means that if the same query is repeated, then the system can quickly retrieve the intent and suggested refinements.
Models
These are frequently asked questions about models.
1. I've uploaded my catalog & events, but I'm still getting this response when I call the predict API:
Recommendation model is not ready.
You can set 'dryRun'
to true in prediction request for integration purpose, which returns
arbitrary catalog items from your Catalog (please DO NOT use this for production
traffic)."**
This usually means that your model has not finished training. If it has been
more than 10 days since you created the model and you are continuing to get this
response, please contact Support.
2. How long does it take to train a model?
Initial model training and tuning takes 2-5 days to complete, but can take
longer for large datasets.
 Subsequently, models are automatically
retrained daily unless disabled. See
Pause and resume training for a model
.
3. Can I download or export the model?
No.
4. Can I use models I created in an existing project in a new project?
No. You need to
create and retrain
the models in the new
project.
5. I want to use a model for my category pages. Can I do that?
Yes. Recommended for You is useful on category pages. 
A category page is similar to a home page, except that you display only items from that category.
You can achieve this using a standard Recommended for You model with filter tags.
For example, you can add customized filter tags (corresponding to each category page) to the items
in your catalog. When you send the prediction request, set the user event object as
category-page-view
and specify a specific category page's tag in the
filter
field. Only recommendation results matching the requested filter tag are
returned. Diversity should be disabled in this use case, because diversity can conflict with
category-based filter tags.
6. Can I disable personalization for my models?
By default, prediction results are personalized by user for the
Others You May Like
,
Recommended for You
, and
Buy it Again
recommendation model types.
Disabling personalization isn't recommended because it can negatively impact
model performance.
If you need to show catalog items relevant to the product being viewed rather
than based on the user's previous engagements with your site, it is possible to
receive non-personalized recommendations by using a random unique visitor ID in
a prediction request. Make sure you only do so for requests in serving
configurations that you don't want to be personalized.
Search for commerce console
These are frequently asked questions about using the Search for commerce console.
1. I purged a number of events, but the dashboard still shows the counts for those event types.
This is expected. The Search for commerce dashboard shows the number of
events ingested over a certain period of time; it doesn't show the current count
or number of events.
Generally, you should leave user events in place after they have been recorded.
Purging events is not recommended. If you plan to reset user events entirely,
consider creating a new project instead.
If you do need to purge events that have not been recorded properly, see the
documentation for
Remove user events
. An event purge can take
up to several days to complete.
2. How can I tell if there are errors with my catalog or user events?
Most API calls for catalog item updates or user events return an error if there
is a problem with syntax or the request can't be processed for some reason.
The Search for commerce dashboard shows percentage of unjoined events, which
is also a useful metric to use for spotting catalog or event issues. Unjoined
events (or unjoined predict calls) happen when an item ID is specified that
isn't in the catalog. This usually means the catalog is out of date and the new
or changed catalog items need to be uploaded, but it can also be due to bad item
IDs being passed. Check your requests to make sure the item IDs map correctly to
the catalog, then check the catalog you uploaded to be sure the items exist.
Cloud Monitoring
and
Cloud Logging
can be used to
monitor the status of events. For example, you can receive alerts if there are
no events over a given period of time, or if predict calls drop below a certain
threshold.
3. Why do my recommendation serving configs show as inactive? How do I activate them?
In order to use recommendation serving configs, you first need to submit
catalog
and
user event data
to train the corresponding
model. Once a model has been trained, the dashboard indicates that the model
is ready to query.
4. In what currency does Search for commerce report revenue metrics?
Search for commerce reports metrics in the currency used in
your uploaded data. Vertex AI Search for commerce does not support using multiple
currencies per catalog and does not convert currencies.
If you plan to use the Search for commerce console to get your
revenue metrics, make sure your events all use a single currency or convert
them all to the same currency before uploading them to Vertex AI Search for commerce.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License
, and code samples are licensed under the
Apache 2.0 License
. For details, see the
Google Developers Site Policies
. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2025-10-24 UTC.
Why Google
Choosing Google Cloud
Trust and security
Modern Infrastructure Cloud
Multicloud
Global infrastructure
Customers and case studies
Analyst reports
Whitepapers
Products and pricing
See all products
See all solutions
Google Cloud for Startups
Google Cloud Marketplace
Google Cloud pricing
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Google Cloud documentation
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Developer Center
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Become a Partner
Google Cloud Affiliate Program
Press Corner
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Manage cookies
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어